All right.
So in the last lesson we learned about nested classes, which I kept saying wrong and had to go back
and fix in the video in this lesson, we're going to learn a little more about nested classes because
there are actually a few different kinds.
So technically now what we learned in the last lesson was not just a nested class, but specifically
it was a static nested class, obviously, because it was made static.
OK.
All right.
So now we're going to learn about a non static nested class, which has a another name, which is an
inner class.
And that may be the more common term that you may hear for the general idea of taking a class and defining
it inside of another class.
OK.
But technically, the most general term for all of these structures is nested class.
All right.
So what are the differences between a static nested class and an inner class?
Well, for one thing, obviously, as I mentioned a moment ago, when you take the static off now,
that's an inner class, OK?
Why would one choose to use a static nested class versus a non static inner class?
Well, as I mentioned in the last lesson, if you don't need anything more than what you would get from
a static nested class.
And if you may need to refer to that static nested class in more than one place, then it may be advised
to go ahead and make it static.
But if you're nested, class needs to be able to access fields of the enclosing class, then you may
need to consider using an inner class.
OK, so one of the main differences between a static nested class and an inner class is the fact that
since a static nested class is static, it is not allowed to access fields of its enclosing class.
And I think that should make sense, right?
Because as we've seen in the in the past, if we have a static method in.
My method just making a quick, temporary one here.
This static method is not able to access any of the fields on the enclosing class, right?
So that's an error, because fields of a class only exist once you create an instance of that class,
but static members of a class exist prior to during and after the creation of instances of that class.
So there's kind of like a mismatch there, right?
Static numbers exist kind of like forever, whereas instances only exist for the period of time while
they've been created.
And so it doesn't make sense for a static member to be able to access non static members of an enclosing
class.
So similarly, it doesn't make sense for a static nested class to be able to access non static members
of its enclosing class.
However, let me go ahead and delete this guy.
However, non static nested classes or inner classes actually can access their enclosing classes members.
So I'll just show a quick example of what that might look like.
So if I were to create another Enner class now, I would have done it on this entire class here.
But this, in her classes, is extending employee, and so it's not going to have the same effect.
And I'll show you why in just a moment.
So if I were to create another inner class here, my inner class and this one, I won't have extend
anything OK, but we'll put a method on it.
Get stuff.
Return zero.
OK.
However, let's say that we also want to access the first name or the last name of the enclosing employee
class, right?
So if we wanted to do something like print out.
First name, we can do that.
And this first name isn't inherited by anything because this my inner class isn't inheriting from anywhere,
right?
So this my inner class would actually be accessing the first named field of the employee class which
encloses this.
OK.
So that would be one reason why you might want to create an inner class if your inner class actually
needed access to the ENCLOSING member fields or methods.
All right.
And just to be clear, so I chose to create the my inner class rather than show you this using the dummy
employee because dummy employee actually already has access to those internal fields since it extends
employee.
OK, so I'm going to get rid of this, and there's one more type of nested class that I want to show
you, and that is called an anonymous class.
So here we created this new class called dummy employee, and I'm going to go ahead and make this static
again just because.
All right.
So we made we made this class and we named it dummy employee.
And then we utilized it a couple of times up here, right here and on line 47, right?
But there's another way that we could have done this that's even narrower in scope than what we're doing
here.
So if I didn't care about being able to instantiate this dummy employee twice in an efficient way,
if I only wanted to be able to instantiate this nested class one time and only ever use it once, I
could have done something even more narrow by actually declaring and using an anonymous class.
So let me show you what that would look like.
So if we come down here, we'll see that our existing dummy employee class nested class extends from
employee.
Right?
So what would make an anonymous class anonymous in large part is the idea that it wouldn't have a name.
OK.
But in all other respects, it would be quite similar to what you see here, other than the fact that
it wouldn't have a name.
And I suppose in this particular case, we wouldn't need to declare it as private static final any of
this business here, because you wouldn't be able to refer to it anyway.
So these keywords here really, actually even that one, I suppose, really would have no bearing.
OK.
And there's not really a way that I'm aware of to even specify them with an anonymous class.
But you'd have the same capabilities.
So let me show you how to do that.
All right.
So just keep in mind, this class has a name dummy employee and it extends employee.
Right?
But we now want to make an anonymous class.
So what you do is instead of referring to a new name of a class which you're not going to use because
this is supposed to be anonymous, instead, what you do is you simply refer to either an interface
or to a super class that this new anonymous class will be a subclass of.
So in our case, our nested class is a subclass of the employee.
So here we'll just say new employee.
And then we'll also kind of combine the declaration of this new anonymous class with a constructor of
sorts.
OK, so we'll do one of these guys here.
OK, that looks like you're calling a constructor.
Then, though, here's the here's where it gets a little interesting.
You put your curly braces here and then an enter.
Now, if I hover over this, we see that class anonymous class derived from employee must either be
declared abstract or implement abstract method, get salaries.
So now we're getting prompted that, Hey, OK, I see what you're doing here.
You're trying to make an anonymous nested class or an anonymous class.
But if you want to make one of the super class employee, you're still going to have to declare a get
salary method.
And so here I can solve that in a couple of ways.
I could put my cursor here and do an option, enter and intelligence to implement the method and bam,
it knows well.
That's the only method that I have to implement get salary and so I can just select OK.
And now that generates that for me.
Now, if you notice down here, it's not happy that I don't have a semicolon here because this is both
a declaration of a new class, an anonymous class, but it is also instantiating that class at the same
time.
And therefore, it's a statement that requires a semicolon.
And so, you know, don't worry about remembering when when you do or don't need a semicolon.
If you're using a modern I.D. like intel, it's going to tell you, Hey, do you need a semicolon here
just to wrap this up?
So just make sure you're paying attention to those little marks, although the I.D. won't let you compile
it without it anyway.
All right.
So what we've now just done is we've declared a new class that doesn't have a name.
OK?
And we've simultaneously created one instance of this new class right here.
So this anonymous classes both do the declaration and the instantiation all in one.
And that's why they look a little weird here with the new operator and something that looks like a constructor.
But then you've got the curly braces here and you're defining methods inside.
OK, so it's kind of all wrapped up in one, and I almost pretty much could also have done this with
the interface I employee where I would have just, well, pretty much just done this.
However, this code in its current form isn't going to be happy, and that is the fact that whatever
I'm returning from these cases of the switch is meant to be something that I'm also going to return
from this create employee method.
And right now, the definition of this create employee method is that I return an employee and let's
see here.
Currently, my employee class is not implementing the I employee interface at the moment because we've
been kind of going back and forth so I could show you various things.
So either I would need to have this class implement the employee interface again, or I would need to
change this method to return and I employee or something along those lines.
I'm not going to do that again because I've gone back and forth so many times with it.
But I just wanted to show you that in general, you can create an anonymous class from either another
class, which in that case that other class is treated as a super class to your anonymous class or from
an interface.
So this is the narrowest possible implementation of a nested class, OK?
This is when you pretty much just want a one off.
OK.
So this may make a little less sense in my case here, because I'm actually wanting to return a fairly
narrow type of class twice here on Line forty four and then again on Line fifty three.
So I certainly could just make two anonymous classes here, and I certainly could do that.
But it would be a little wasteful because remember, when you make an anonymous class, you're not just
declaring that class, you're also creating an instance of it.
And so then I'd be creating two instances of the same thing, essentially, which is which is a little
bit wasteful, not a big deal, but a little bit wasteful.
And it's not saving you any any lines at all.
It's actually going to end up being more lines, right, because you're going to duplicate all of this
a couple of times now.
On the other hand, if you want to each one of them to behave a little differently, like you wanted
this one to return a negative one or something and then the other one could return to zero or something.
OK, then it.
Maybe it, maybe it makes a little more sense.
Maybe.
So there's one other type of nested class that I'm not going to explicitly show you, but I will talk
to it, and that is a local nested class.
Now I'm only talking to this because in all honesty, I don't believe in my 20 plus years of Java development.
I don't think I've ever in my entire life, ever.
Ever, ever created or used a local nested class.
But what that is, so if you remember we've learned about local variables, a local variable is just
a variable within a code block.
Typically, it's a variable defined within a method.
But it's technically any variable inside of any code block, and the definition of a code block is any
any block of code, any, you know, multiple lines of code in between curly braces, essentially,
right?
So I could create a local variable like my local bar right there, right?
So that's local to this method here, right?
It has no scope outside of this method.
So when the thread leaves this method, this variable, for all intents and purposes, ceases to exist.
OK, well, I can also define an entire nested class inside of a method.
OK.
So I could do something like class my local class.
Just like this, and as you already see here, there are no errors here, right?
It's it's it's it's going to go ahead and let me do this so I could define a method here public.
I don't know and get numb.
Return five.
There you go.
And then down here, if I wanted to, I could say something like, you know, instead of returning dummy
employee return my new my local class.
Now, of course, this is going to give me an error because my local class is not of type employee.
But if I were to come over here and then say, I don't know, extends employee, then I'm going to get
an error here because I need to implement the get salary method.
But I could then say, you know, call this good salary instead.
And now all of the errors go away and look at that.
That's all happy.
And this is still a very localized, very narrow scope to method.
Now, I wouldn't do this.
This just looks like a little too much noise, to be perfectly honest with you.
Not a fan of this.
I prefer in this case, I prefer to just do what we did down here a little bit cleaner, slightly wider
in scope, and you do generally want to limit the scope of things.
But this is a bit much to me.
I'd probably even go more with an anonymous class, by the way.
Now one thing about anonymous classes is, though I would probably prefer to use an anonymous class
here rather than use this local class, which is just a bit much.
I will acknowledge that to me, even anonymous classes are kind of noisy.
I mean, just look at this, it looks kind of weird.
You're kind of embedding this thing that's half constructor, half class definition and method, all
embedded in line inside of this, you know, the rest of the structure, it's kind of a lot of noise.
And if and then imagine if you were going to implement multiple methods here, that would be even noisier,
right?
So I'm not a huge fan of this either.
But anonymous classes have a long history of use in Java, mostly for graphics programming, which I
may speak a little bit more about in the future.
So I'm a little more accustomed to them, I suppose.
Whereas this local class is, I don't know, just a little bit more of a stretch for me now.
In the future, we will learn about another construct that has actually supplanted even using these
anonymous classes.
And that's some pretty cool stuff that newer versions of Java have implemented as of several years ago.
And that would actually be the way forward for me if I were doing this for real, but we haven't learned
that yet, so I'm not going to show it to you just yet.
But stay tuned for that.
So anyway, this wraps up, I think everything that I wanted to teach about nested classes.
So you've got a whole lot of options there.
They are definitely an interesting feature of Java, and you can probably get yourself into a lot of
trouble.
So I would advise very much keep it simple, you know, and you're probably never going to be wrong
if you just stick with standard classes.
But in cases where you just don't want others to even be able to instantiate the thing or or whatever.
Sure, you can.
You can look at using nested classes as an alternative.
OK.
Wrapping this up, and I'll see you in the next one.